So interface VLAN 100 stand by 1 IP 10.1.100.254, stand by 1 priority 200, standby 1 preemption.
So looking at core 2 show run shows us that this is the configuration on VLAN 100 and the switch has become
the active router.
On core 1 we're going to do something similar.
Standby 1 IP 10.1.100.254
show
standby still listening at the moment, but after a while, that should go to active.
It's now speaking, in other words, sending out HSRP messages and notice it's now gone to stand by.
So show standby on VLAN 100, the local router is in standby mode,
active router is core 2 again local
router is standby.
Now the last VLAN to configure and one not to forget is VLAN 1.
Don't forget to configure VLAN 1, because your layer 2 switch is here at the access layer also
need a default gateway.
Show spanning-tree VLAN 1 local switch is the root, so we want to configure it as the HSRP primary.
So standby 1 IP 10.1.1.254, standby 1 priority
200 standby 1 preemption.
So show run
and we'll look at VLAN 1, that's the configuration.
Configure core 2 interface VLAN 1 standby 1 IP 10.1.1.254.
We can see that core 1 has become the active router for VLAN 1, so show standby
for VLAN 1 core 1 is the active router.
Same for VLAN 10, same for VLAN 30
its standby for VLAN 100 and its standby for VLAN 20 on the side show
standby
VLAN 1 it's the standby router, standby for VLAN 10, it's active for VLAN 20
standby for VLAN 30
active for VLAN 100,
so that's good.
I think we've configured HSRP successfully on our core switches.
Now we need to configure default gateways.
So we've already configured PC 1 to use 10.1.10.254 as the default gateway, let's configure PC 2.
So config on PC 2
gateway will be 10.1.20.254 DNS server will be google, IP address will be 10.1.20.10
/24 mask. So that's the IP address we need to use 10.1.20.10.
Go to desktop command prompt IP config shows us that information can it ping its default gateway?
Yes, it can.
Can the PC ping
PC 1?
OK, so there you go, just took a bit of time, but notice now, PC 2 can ping PC 1. So back on
PC 1
can it ping PC 2?
Yes, it can.
Notice, if we look at the ARP cache we don't see a Mac address for PC 2 because to get to PC 2 traffic
is going via the default gateway, which is the HSRP router
and the same is true on PC 2.
We need to configure PC 3, so gateway is going to be 10.1.30.254 DNS server is Google
IP address will be 10.1.30.10/24 mask
as shown here
desktop command prompt IP config, that looks good.
Can we ping PC 1?
Yes, we can, can we ping PC 2?
Yes, we can.
So that looks great.
But notice we won't be able to ping all switches.
Why can't we ping the switch
if we run a debug on that switch?
So use the come on, debug IP ICMP, we should be able to see if traffic arrives after that switch and
notice you can see it arriving so the ping gets to the switch, but it doesn't get back again
and that's because we need to configure a default gateway on the switch.
And to do that, we use the command IP default gateway and we specify our default gateway, which is
the HSRP router, and now you can see that pings are succeeding. So I'll turn off debugging here
command is un-all to turn off debugging, save the config while we're there and notice PC 3 can ping switch
1 but can't ping switch 2 this switch here because again, we need to configure a default gateway.
So show IP interface
brief IP address is 10.1.1.2 show IP route shows us that we don't have a default gateway.
So IP default gateway
10.1.1.254
show IP route default gateway is now configured. So back on PC3
hopefully we should be able to ping switch 2 which we can.
Pings are now succeeding.
We need to do something similar
on switch 3, access switch 3 IP default gateway
10.1.1.254
show IP route shows us that we do have a default gateway configured, I'll save the configuration.
So on PC 3 can we ping access 3?
Took a while, but the answer is yes, we can now ping access 3. Can we ping the server, which
has IP address 10.100.100?
Answer is no, because we need to configure the server.
So on the server default gateway will be 10.1.100.254 we'll set to the DNS server to Google,
IP address will be 10.1.100.100/24 mask.
Open up a CMD prompt or command prompt IP config shows us the IP address of the server.
Can it ping PC 1?
Yes, it can.
What about PC 2?
What about PC three?
Yes, it can.
Can the PC ping the server?
Yes, PC 3 can ping the server.
What about PC 2?
Yes, it can.
What about PC 1?
So we've successfully configured IP connectivity in the campus, we've configured HSRP, but we still
need to do, however, is configure EIGRP on the core router and on the ISR.